basic/quick-start-send-and-receive/README.adoc, before:

= Spring for Kafka, Basic Sample - Send and Receive Messages
:sectlinks:
:sectnums:
:sectnumlevels: 4
:toc:
:toclevels: 4

== Purpose
This project provides a basic example of using the Spring for Kafka library (module) that covers sending and
receiving messages to/from Kafka topics. It provides examples of using the following Spring for Kafka
features -

*1) KafkaTemplate* - Using the https://docs.spring.io/spring-kafka/docs/2.4.0.RELEASE/api/org/springframework/kafka/core/KafkaTemplate.html[KafkaTemplate]
class which simplifies sending messages to a Kafka topic, by creating and wrapping an instance of the Kafka client
API's https://kafka.apache.org/24/javadoc/org/apache/kafka/clients/producer/KafkaProducer.html[KafkaProducer], and
providing a set of overloaded convenience methods for sending.

*2) POJO Message Listeners* - How to take advantage of Spring for Kafka's https://docs.spring.io/spring-kafka/docs/2.4.0.RELEASE/api/org/springframework/kafka/listener/KafkaMessageListenerContainer.html[KafkaMessageListenerContainer]
support for simplifying the code that needs to be written to process messages received on Kafka topics. The
MessageListenerContainer (MLC) performs the 'heavy lifting' of maintaining a reliable connection to the Kafka broker
and consuming messages from one or more specified topics (using the Kafka  client API's
https://kafka.apache.org/24/javadoc/index.html?org/apache/kafka/clients/consumer/KafkaConsumer.html[KafkaConsumer]).
Application code then only needs to provide a message handler method to which the MLC can dispatch messages, by registering a
(POJO) implementation of Spring for Kafka's
https://docs.spring.io/spring-kafka/docs/2.4.0.RELEASE/api/org/springframework/kafka/listener/MessageListener.html[MessageListener].

== Project Versions
Multiple versions of this project exist. Their git tag and the purpose of each is as follows  -

.Project Versions
[cols="0,1"]
|===
|Tag|Purpose
|0.0.1
|A fully functional example which illustrates how to manually create all the necessary Spring for Kafka objects for
sending & receiving messages, directly using its Java APIs. (Provides greater insight into Spring for Kafka concepts
and APIs, but in practice you're better off using the framework's support for creating a default set of these objects
as managed beans,  as shown in v0.0.2 of  this project).
|===


== Project Overview
The project is written in Java. The source code, and its automated tests can be found in the standard folders
- src/main/java and src/test/java respectively.

The main 'production' classes of interest are -

* `QuickStartMessageListener` - An example of a POJO implementation of the aforementioned Spring for Kafka
MessageListener interface that provides a 'handler' method for processing individual Kafka messages dispatched to it
by the Spring for Kafka KafkaMessageListenerContainer with which it has been registered.

Automated tests are written using JUnit (5). They include  -

* `QuickStartMessageListenerIntegrationTest` - A JUnit test class which serves multiple purposes. Notionally it is an
integration test for the aforementioned `QuickStartMessageListener` class, which exercises the MessageListener in
conjunction with both the Spring framework and the real implementation of the message broker (Kafka). However, for the
purposes of this sample, the test case's automated tests (@Test methods) for the MessageListener's +onMessage(...)
method are also used to provide examples of how to use Spring for Kafka's `KafkaTemplate` class to simplify sending
of messages to Kafka topics in a reliable manner.

== Generating IDE Projects and Code Docs (Javadoc)
If you'd like to view the source and/or run the project's tests from your IDE, the project's Gradle build script
supports generating IDE project files for both Eclipse and IntelliJ IDEA.

To generate an Eclipse project use the following command:

`./gradlew cleanEclipse eclipse`

To generate an IntelliJ IDEA project use the following command:

`./gradlew cleanIdea idea`

To generate the Javadoc for the production code, use the following command:

`./gradlew clean javadoc`

The generated Javadoc can be found in the standard location for a Gradle project - build/docs/javadoc/index.html.

To generate the Javadoc for the test code, use the following command:

`./gradlew clean javadocTests`

The generated Javadoc can be found in the standard location for a Gradle project - build/docs/javadocTests/index.html.

For more details of Gradle build support see build.gradle in the project's root folder.

== Tested Versions of Dependencies & Broker
This example is built from and has been tested to run with the following third-party dependencies (Java libraries)  and
run-times. (These are minimum versions. More recent versions may well work if they provide backwards compatibility,
but they haven't been tested).

 * Java 11

 * Spring for Kafka 2.4.0.RELEASE - This in turn defines transitive dependencies on core Spring (5.2.2.RELEASE) and
the Kafka Client API for Java (2.4.0).

 * Apache Kafka 2.1.x

== Building & Running the Automated Tests
This section contains outline instructions on how to  use the automated integration tests to perform an end-to-end test
of the Spring for Kafka MessageListener and KafkaTemplate in conjunction with a locally running instance of a
Kafka message broker.

=== Pre-requisites
*Java*  - You will need to install a Java JDK (see min supported version above).

A Gradle build script is provided to support building and running the app and its automated tests, as well as
packaging the app for deploying and running standalone. The minimum required version of Gradle will be
automatically installed when you execute the build using the supplied Gradle wrapper script (./gradlew), so this is
_not_ a pre-requisite.

*Kafka* - The automated integration tests currently rely on connecting to a local instance of Kafka, listening on its
default port. You will  therefore need to install and start Kafka on your local machine before you can run the tests,

=== Steps

*1)* Launch an instance of the Kafka broker in a background process listening on localhost default port (9092).

If you installed Kafka on a Mac using the Homebrew package manager the following commands will work  -
```bash
$ zookeeper-server-start /usr/local/etc/kafka/zookeeper.properties &
$ kafka-server-start /usr/local/etc/kafka/server.properties &
```

*2)* Compile and run all the automated tests from the command line, by entering the following command in the project's
root folder:

`./gradlew test`

If the test runs successfully you will see messages similar to the following logged to the console (stdout) -
```
com.neiljbrown.example.QuickStartMessageListenerIntegrationTest > tesOnMessage() STANDARD_OUT
    ...
    2020-01-18 19:00:59,045 [Test worker ] INFO  o.a.k.clients.consumer.KafkaConsumer - [Consumer clientId=consumer-springKafkaQuickStartGroup-1, groupId=springKafkaQuickStartGroup] Subscribed to topic(s): user-events, customer-events
    ...
    ...
    2020-01-18 19:01:00,569 [Test worker ] INFO  o.a.k.c.producer.ProducerConfig - ProducerConfig values:
    ...
    ...
    2020-01-18 19:01:00,666 [-C-1 ] DEBUG c.n.e.QuickStartMessageListener - Received message [ConsumerRecord(topic = user-events, partition = 0, leaderEpoch = 0, offset = 16, CreateTime = 1579374060613, serialized key size = 4, serialized value size = 33, headers = RecordHeaders(headers = [], isReadOnly = false), key = 1, value = {"userId": 1, "firstName": "joe"})].
    2020-01-18 19:01:00,667 [-C-1 ] DEBUG c.n.e.QuickStartMessageListener - Received message [ConsumerRecord(topic = user-events, partition = 0, leaderEpoch = 0, offset = 17, CreateTime = 1579374060618, serialized key size = 4, serialized value size = 34, headers = RecordHeaders(headers = [], isReadOnly = false), key = 2, value = {"userId": 2, "firstName": "jane"})].
    2020-01-18 19:01:00,667 [-C-1 ] DEBUG c.n.e.QuickStartMessageListener - Received message [ConsumerRecord(topic = user-events, partition = 0, leaderEpoch = 0, offset = 18, CreateTime = 1579374060619, serialized key size = 4, serialized value size = 34, headers = RecordHeaders(headers = [RecordHeader(key = my-event-id, value = [49, 50, 51]), RecordHeader(key = my-event-type, value = [85, 115, 101, 114, 67, 114, 101, 97, 116, 101, 100])], isReadOnly = false), key = 3, value = {"userId": 3, "firstName": "jack"})].
    2020-01-18 19:01:00,669 [-C-1 ] DEBUG c.n.e.QuickStartMessageListener - Received message [ConsumerRecord(topic = user-events, partition = 0, leaderEpoch = 0, offset = 19, CreateTime = 1579374060623, serialized key size = 4, serialized value size = 33, headers = RecordHeaders(headers = [RecordHeader(key = my-event-type, value = [85, 115, 101, 114, 67, 114, 101, 97, 116, 101, 100]), RecordHeader(key = my-event-id, value = [49, 50, 52])], isReadOnly = false), key = 4, value = {"userId": 4, "firstName": "jim"})].
    ...
    ...
    2020-01-18 19:01:00,740 [-C-1 ] INFO  o.s.k.l.KafkaMessageListenerContainer$ListenerConsumer - springKafkaQuickStartGroup: Consumer stopped

com.neiljbrown.example.QuickStartMessageListenerIntegrationTest > tesOnMessage() PASSED

```

*3)* Shutdown Kafka:
```bash
$ kafka-server-stop
$ zookeeper-server-stop
```

End

---

Commit message:

Example basic/quick-start-send-and-receive, Convert app to use Spring @Configuration and @EnableKafka (ctd) - Update project readme to reflect changes made in this version of the app after switching to use of @EnableKafa.

basic/quick-start-send-and-receive/README.adoc, after:

= Spring for Kafka, Basic Sample - Send and Receive Messages
:sectlinks:
:sectnums:
:sectnumlevels: 4
:toc:
:toclevels: 4

== Purpose
This project provides a basic example of using the Spring for Kafka library (module) that covers sending and
receiving messages to/from Kafka topics. It provides examples of using the following Spring for Kafka
features -

*1) KafkaTemplate* - Using the https://docs.spring.io/spring-kafka/docs/2.4.0.RELEASE/api/org/springframework/kafka/core/KafkaTemplate.html[KafkaTemplate]
class which simplifies sending messages to a Kafka topic, by creating and wrapping an instance of the Kafka client
API's https://kafka.apache.org/24/javadoc/org/apache/kafka/clients/producer/KafkaProducer.html[KafkaProducer], and
providing a set of overloaded convenience methods for sending.

*2) POJO Message Listeners* - How to take advantage of Spring for Kafka's https://docs.spring.io/spring-kafka/docs/2.4.0.RELEASE/api/org/springframework/kafka/listener/KafkaMessageListenerContainer.html[KafkaMessageListenerContainer]
support for simplifying the code that needs to be written to process messages received on Kafka topics. The
MessageListenerContainer (MLC) performs the 'heavy lifting' of maintaining a reliable connection to the Kafka broker;
consuming messages from one or more specified topics (using the Kafka client API's
https://kafka.apache.org/24/javadoc/index.html?org/apache/kafka/clients/consumer/KafkaConsumer.html[KafkaConsumer]),
dispatching the message to business logic, and acknowledging the message if it is successfully processed. Application
code need only register or declare POJO implementations of message listener classes containing message handler method(s)
to which the MLC can dispatch messages.

== Project Versions
Multiple versions of this project exist. Their git tag and the purpose of each is as follows  -

.Project Versions
[cols="0,1"]
|===
|Tag|Purpose
|0.1.0
|A fully functional example which illustrates how to _manually_ create all the necessary Spring for Kafka objects for
sending & receiving messages, directly using its Java APIs. (Provides greater insight into Spring for Kafka concepts
and APIs, but in practice you're better off using the framework's support for creating a default set of these objects
as managed beans, as implemented in v0.2.0 of this project).
|0.2.0
|Reworks and simplifies version 0.1.0 of the sample app by leveraging the use of Spring for Kafka's @EnableKafka
annotation, in conjunction with Spring bean (Java) config (an @Configuration class) to automate the creation, startup
and shutdown of the KafkaMessageListenerContainer; and auto-detect message listener handler methods declared using the
@KafkaListener annotation.
|===

== Project Overview
The project is written in Java. The source code, and its automated tests can be found in the standard folders
- src/main/java and src/test/java respectively.

The main 'production' classes of interest are -

* `QuickStartMessageListener` - An example of a POJO message listener that contains a 'handler' method capable of
processing individual messages consumed and dispatched by the Spring for Kafka KafkaMessageListenerContainer with which
it has been previously  registered. The initial (0.1.0) version of the app, which relies on explicit programmatic
registration of the listener with the MLC, requires this class to implement Spring for Kafka's
https://docs.spring.io/spring-kafka/docs/2.4.0.RELEASE/api/org/springframework/kafka/listener/MessageListener.html[MessageListener].
interface. From version 0.2.0 of the app onwards, the use of the @EnableKafka annotation removes this obligation. The
framework instead supports the automatic discovery and registration of listener classes containing one or more handler
methods declared with the @KafkaListener annotation.

Automated tests are written using JUnit (5). They include  -

* `QuickStartMessageListenerIntegrationTest` - A JUnit test class which serves multiple purposes. Notionally it is an
integration test for the aforementioned `QuickStartMessageListener` class, which exercises the MessageListener in
conjunction with both the Spring framework and the real implementation of the message broker (Kafka). However, for the
purposes of this sample, the test case's automated tests (@Test methods) for the Message Listener's handler
method  (e.g. +onMessage(...)) are also used to provide examples of how to use Spring for Kafka's `KafkaTemplate`
class to simplify sending of messages to Kafka topics in a reliable manner.

== Generating IDE Projects and Code Docs (Javadoc)
If you'd like to view the source and/or run the project's tests from your IDE, the project's Gradle build script
supports generating IDE project files for both Eclipse and IntelliJ IDEA.

To generate an Eclipse project use the following command:

`./gradlew cleanEclipse eclipse`

To generate an IntelliJ IDEA project use the following command:

`./gradlew cleanIdea idea`

To generate the Javadoc for the production code, use the following command:

`./gradlew clean javadoc`

The generated Javadoc can be found in the standard location for a Gradle project - build/docs/javadoc/index.html.

To generate the Javadoc for the test code, use the following command:

`./gradlew clean javadocTests`

The generated Javadoc can be found in the standard location for a Gradle project - build/docs/javadocTests/index.html.

For more details of Gradle build support see build.gradle in the project's root folder.

== Tested Versions of Dependencies & Broker
This example is built from and has been tested to run with the following third-party dependencies (Java libraries)  and
run-times. (These are minimum versions. More recent versions may well work if they provide backwards compatibility,
but they haven't been tested).

 * Java 11

 * Spring for Kafka 2.4.0.RELEASE - This in turn defines transitive dependencies on core Spring (5.2.2.RELEASE) and
the Kafka Client API for Java (2.4.0).

 * Apache Kafka 2.1.x

== Building & Running the Automated Tests
This section contains outline instructions on how to  use the automated integration tests to perform an end-to-end test
of the Spring for Kafka MessageListener and KafkaTemplate in conjunction with a locally running instance of a
Kafka message broker.

=== Pre-requisites
*Java*  - You will need to install a Java JDK (see min supported version above).

A Gradle build script is provided to support building and running the app and its automated tests, as well as
packaging the app for deploying and running standalone. The minimum required version of Gradle will be
automatically installed when you execute the build using the supplied Gradle wrapper script (./gradlew), so this is
_not_ a pre-requisite.

*Kafka* - The automated integration tests currently rely on connecting to a local instance of Kafka, listening on its
default port. You will  therefore need to install and start Kafka on your local machine before you can run the tests,

=== Steps

*1)* Launch an instance of the Kafka broker in a background process listening on localhost default port (9092).

If you installed Kafka on a Mac using the Homebrew package manager the following commands will work  -
```bash
$ zookeeper-server-start /usr/local/etc/kafka/zookeeper.properties &
$ kafka-server-start /usr/local/etc/kafka/server.properties &
```

*2)* Compile and run all the automated tests from the command line, by entering the following command in the project's
root folder:

`./gradlew test`

If the test runs successfully you will see messages similar to the following logged to the console (stdout) -
```
com.neiljbrown.example.QuickStartMessageListenerIntegrationTest > tesOnMessage() STANDARD_OUT
    ...
    2020-01-18 19:00:59,045 [Test worker ] INFO  o.a.k.clients.consumer.KafkaConsumer - [Consumer clientId=consumer-springKafkaQuickStartGroup-1, groupId=springKafkaQuickStartGroup] Subscribed to topic(s): user-events, customer-events
    ...
    ...
    2020-01-18 19:01:00,569 [Test worker ] INFO  o.a.k.c.producer.ProducerConfig - ProducerConfig values:
    ...
    ...
    2020-01-18 19:01:00,666 [-C-1 ] DEBUG c.n.e.QuickStartMessageListener - Received message [ConsumerRecord(topic = user-events, partition = 0, leaderEpoch = 0, offset = 16, CreateTime = 1579374060613, serialized key size = 4, serialized value size = 33, headers = RecordHeaders(headers = [], isReadOnly = false), key = 1, value = {"userId": 1, "firstName": "joe"})].
    2020-01-18 19:01:00,667 [-C-1 ] DEBUG c.n.e.QuickStartMessageListener - Received message [ConsumerRecord(topic = user-events, partition = 0, leaderEpoch = 0, offset = 17, CreateTime = 1579374060618, serialized key size = 4, serialized value size = 34, headers = RecordHeaders(headers = [], isReadOnly = false), key = 2, value = {"userId": 2, "firstName": "jane"})].
    2020-01-18 19:01:00,667 [-C-1 ] DEBUG c.n.e.QuickStartMessageListener - Received message [ConsumerRecord(topic = user-events, partition = 0, leaderEpoch = 0, offset = 18, CreateTime = 1579374060619, serialized key size = 4, serialized value size = 34, headers = RecordHeaders(headers = [RecordHeader(key = my-event-id, value = [49, 50, 51]), RecordHeader(key = my-event-type, value = [85, 115, 101, 114, 67, 114, 101, 97, 116, 101, 100])], isReadOnly = false), key = 3, value = {"userId": 3, "firstName": "jack"})].
    2020-01-18 19:01:00,669 [-C-1 ] DEBUG c.n.e.QuickStartMessageListener - Received message [ConsumerRecord(topic = user-events, partition = 0, leaderEpoch = 0, offset = 19, CreateTime = 1579374060623, serialized key size = 4, serialized value size = 33, headers = RecordHeaders(headers = [RecordHeader(key = my-event-type, value = [85, 115, 101, 114, 67, 114, 101, 97, 116, 101, 100]), RecordHeader(key = my-event-id, value = [49, 50, 52])], isReadOnly = false), key = 4, value = {"userId": 4, "firstName": "jim"})].
    ...
    ...
    2020-01-18 19:01:00,740 [-C-1 ] INFO  o.s.k.l.KafkaMessageListenerContainer$ListenerConsumer - springKafkaQuickStartGroup: Consumer stopped

com.neiljbrown.example.QuickStartMessageListenerIntegrationTest > tesOnMessage() PASSED

```

*3)* Shutdown Kafka:
```bash
$ kafka-server-stop
$ zookeeper-server-stop
```

End

---
